# Robert Moses Responds to Robert Caro

## Overview

Robert Caro's *The Power Broker* may be the best-known urban planning biography. Less known: Robert Moses actually responded with a haughty, turgid statement preserved today only as a grainy photocopy. I have transcribed it and [shared it online](https://geoffboeing.com/publications/robert-moses-replies-caro/), alongside Caro's own reply to Moses's statement.

## Background

In 1974, Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. published Robert Caro's *The Power Broker*, a critical biography of Robert Moses's dictatorial tenure as the "master builder" of mid-century New York. Moses profoundly transformed the urban fabric and transportation system of New York, producing the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel, the Verrazano Narrows Bridge, the Westside Highway, the Cross-Bronx Expressway, the Lincoln Center, the UN headquarters, Shea Stadium, Jones Beach State Park, and many other projects. However, *The Power Broker* did lasting damage to his public image and today he remains one of the most polarizing figures in city planning history. Caro's book won the 1975 Pulitzer Prize and was eventually named one of the Modern Library's 100 greatest nonfiction books of the 20th century. Prior to this critical acclaim, however, came a pointed response from the biography's subject.

On August 26, 1974, Moses issued a turgid 23-page statement denouncing Caro's work as "full of mistakes, unsupported charges, nasty baseless personalities, and random haymakers." In his statement, Moses denied having had any responsibility for mass transit, dismissed his "lady critics," and defended the forced displacement of the poor as a necessary component of urban revitalization: "I raise my stein to the builder who can remove ghettos without moving people as I hail the chef who can make omelets without breaking eggs." The statement also included a striking passage on what Moses perceived to be his critics' hypocrisies in the modern age of automobility: "One cannot help being amused by my friends among the media who shout for rails and inveigh against rubber but admit that they live in the suburbs and that their wives are absolutely dependent on motor cars. We live in a motorized civilization."

In the wake of Moses's statement, Caro issued a (much shorter) same-day reply. The following morning, *The New York Times* published an [article](https://www.nytimes.com/1974/08/27/archives/moses-rips-into-venomous-biography-vindictive-canards-rejects.html) reporting on their testy exchange. Moses's original typewritten statement survives today as a grainy photocopy in the New York City Parks Department archive. To better preserve and disseminate it, I have extracted and transcribed its text using optical character recognition and edited the result to correct errors. Here I have compiled my transcription of Moses's statement, followed by Caro's reply: [download PDF](https://geoffboeing.com/publications/robert-moses-replies-caro/).
